>> Nina Zakharenko: Dictionaries and
Python.
They're a useful type that allow us
to store our data in key value pairs.
So someone brought up JSON,
JSON is key value pairs, right?
So, perfect data structure for
storing and working with JSON.
Dictionaries themselves are mutable,
you can add and
remove items from a dictionary.
But dictionary keys can only
be immutable types right.
What happened when we try to
put immutable lists in our set?
>> Nina Zakharenko: We got an error right?
Unhashable type,
same thing with dictionaries,
a dictionary key can only
be of immutable type.
Because under the hood it
uses that hash function.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We use dictionaries
when we wanna be able to quickly
access additional data associated
with a particular key.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Practical
application for dictionaries is JSON or
something like memoization.
Let's say that you wanna save computing
power, and store the result for
a function called with a particular
set of immutable arguments.
The arguments themselves could be a key,
and
the result could be stored as
the value of a dictionary, right?
Just like with sets,
checking to see if a key in
a dictionary is a very fast operation.
Like with list you don't have to say
let me check each key one by one,
it's just, the key is in there or
not, it's very fast.
>> Nina Zakharenko: We have our
dictionary cheat sheet right here,
but let's kinda see them in
practice
>> Nina Zakharenko: How
do we make an empty dictionary?
We already know this one.
>> Class: Records.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Right.
>> Nina Zakharenko: And to confirm,
check the type, it's a dict.
We can also, see, if the class is dict,
we can also call dict like this,
also have a dict.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Kind of for
all of these data structures.
Generally you'll see them created with
the symbols and not with the methods.
But, it's kind of an option in
you will see it used in code.
Especially with empty set where
there's just is no other options.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay.
>> Nina Zakharenko: To create
dictionaries with items in them so,
the brackets,
those kind of belong to sets.
The thing that makes the dictionary
different than a set is a new symbol.
And so, we're gonna make a dictionary,
the key is on the left hand side followed
by a colon, followed by the value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: So
that's a one item dictionary.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Let's make a new one.
This time let's reverse the order and
say the string one,
the key one is mapped
to the value numeric 1.
Let's do that with 2 and with 3.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Notice that
the key value pairs in the dictionary
are separated by commas.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we look at the type
of our nums it's a dictionary, and
if we look in here we'll
see our key value pairs.
Just a quick sidenote about
what can be used as keys.
Here you've seen me use strings and
numbers, right?
So, I can say a dictionary of 1 to 1,
that's just fine.
I can have a mutable type as
the value in my dictionary just fine.
>> Nina Zakharenko: What if I tried
to use the mutable type as the key to
my dictionary, what's gonna happen.
>> Class: Type error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Unhashable type list,
right?
Only immutable types can
be used as dictionary keys.
>> Nina Zakharenko: But it doesn't matter
for the values, the values can be mutable,
inmutable, whatever you want.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay so,
just like with a set,
the keys of our dictionary
are not ordered,
they're not at position 1 or
0 or anything like that.
Instead, our dictionary
contains key value pairs.
So looking back at our nums dictionary,
how do you think I might access
the value for the key 1?
>> Class: With the key.
>> Nina Zakharenko: With the key, exactly
right, and so just like with a list where
I used this square bracket notation to
say, give me the item at this position.
With the dictionary instead
you put the key in there.
>> Nina Zakharenko: You put in the key and
get back the value.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay,
what if I try to access, let's say,
>> Nina Zakharenko: What if I try
to access nums at position 0,
what am I gonna get?
Do dictionaries have a sequence or
an order to them?
No, you get a KeyError.
Says 0 is not in my dictionary.
If it was,
then I would get something back, but
that's kind of coincidence, right?
>> Nina Zakharenko: So,
it's something to be mindful of.
>> Nina Zakharenko: If we try to access
an item that's not in the dictionary,
we're gonna get a key error,
just like we saw here.
But remember with our set, there was
a discard method that allowed us to
remove something from
the site if it was in there.
And if it wasn't,
instead of giving us this noisy error,
it would just kinda return nothing.
Dictionaries have these too,
so looking at my nums.
If I called nums.get with a key
that's not present no error.
What do I see if I try to
access the key for a nums?
>> Class: Key error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Key error.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Got it?
So two different ways of accessing items,
one throws an explicit error,
one does not.
>> Nina Zakharenko: The nice
thing about get is,
we can also provide a default value
to return if the key is not present.
So, looking at my dictionary of nums.
What happens if I call nums.get1,
>> Nina Zakharenko: The number 1?
nums.get|"four"|?
Turns nothing one, right, or non-type.
Now I can provide
an optional argument to get.
And say, if this key is not present,
return this default value instead.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Okay, so
what if I call nums.get"one" but
also provide a default value,
which on will I get?
>> Class: Your 1.
>> Nina Zakharenko: Get 1, all right,
so that says give me the value for
that key if it's present.
If it's not,
here's the default value instead,
pretty nice handy little short cut.